#!/usr/bin/perl

use strict;
use warnings;
use App::TimeTracker::Proto;

binmode(STDOUT, ":utf8");

my $app = App::TimeTracker::Proto->new->run;

# ABSTRACT: run App::TimeTracker
# PODNAME: tracker

__END__

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  ~/perl/Some-Project$ tracker start
  Started working on Some-Project at 09:03:41
  
  ~/perl/Some-Project$ tracker stop
  Worked 00:07:42 on Some-Project

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<tracker> is the front end script to L<App::TimeTracker>. C<tracker>
allows you to easily track and report the time you spend on various
jobs, projects, tasks etc from the commandline.

Custom commands or adaptions to your workflow can be implemented via
an "interesting" set of L<Moose>-powered plug-ins. You can configure
different sets of plug-ins for different jobs or projects.

B<Tip:> Use C<tracker plugins> to list all installed plugins. Read more about each plug-in in C<App::TimeTracker::Command::PLUGIN-NAME>.

=head1 INSTALLATION

App::TimeTracker is a L<Perl|http://perl.org> application, and thus requires a recent Perl (>= 5.10). It also reuses a lot of code from L<CPAN|http://cpan.org>.

=head2 From CPAN

The easiest way to install the current stable version of App::TimeTracker is via L<CPAN|http://cpan.org>. There are several different CPAN clients available:

=head3 cpanminus

The new and shiny CPAN client!

  ~$ cpanm App::TimeTracker
  --> Working on App::TimeTracker
  Fetching http://search.cpan.org/CPAN/authors/id/D/DO/DOMM/App-TimeTracker-2.009.tar.gz ... OK
  Configuring App-TimeTracker-2.009 ... OK
  Building and testing App-TimeTracker-2.009 ... OK
  Successfully installed App-TimeTracker-2.009
  1 distribution installed

If you don't have C<cpanminus> installed yet, L<install it right now|http://search.cpan.org/dist/App-cpanminus/lib/App/cpanminus.pm#INSTALLATION>:

  ~$ curl -L http://cpanmin.us | perl - --sudo App::cpanminus

=head3 CPANPLUS

CPANPLUS comes preinstalled with recent Perls (5.10 and newer).

  cpanp i App::TimeTracker

=head3 CPAN.pm

CPAN.pm is available on ancient Perls, and feels a bit ancient, too.

  cpan App::TimeTracker

=head2 From a tarball or git checkout

To install App::TimeTracker from a tarball or a git checkout, do the usual CPAN module install dance:

  ~/perl/App-TimeTracker$ perl Build.PL
  ~/perl/App-TimeTracker$ ./Build
  ~/perl/App-TimeTracker$ ./Build test
  ~/perl/App-TimeTracker$ ./Build install  # might require sudo

=head1 CONFIGURATION

App::TimeTracker uses a bunch of config files in JSON format. The config files valid for a specific instance of C<tracker> are collected by walking the directory tree up from the current working directory, and merging all F<.tracker.json> files that are found, plus the main config file F<~/.TimeTracker/tracker.json>.

You can use this tree of config files to define general settings, per
job settings and per project settings, while always reusing the
configuration defined in the parent. I.e. the config settings sort of override the values defined further up in the tree.

Anytime you call C<tracker>, we look up from your current directory until we find the first C<.tracker.json> file. This file marks the current project.

See App::TimeTracker::Command::Core and the various plugins for valid config parameters.

=head2 The different config files

=head3 Main config file: ~/.TimeTracker/tracker.json

The main config file lives in a directory named F<.TimeTracker>
located in your home directory (as defined by L<File::HomeDir>). All
other config files inherit from this file. You can, for example, use
this file to define plugins you always want to use

=head3 List of projects: ~/.TimeTracker/projects.json

This file lists all the projects App::TimeTracker knows of on this
machine. The content is autogenerated, so please do not edit it by
hand. We use this file to locate all your working directories for the
various reporing commands.

=head3 Per project config file: your-project/.tracker.json

Besides being the last node in the tree of the currently valid
configuration, this file also defines the containing directory as a
project.

=head2 Example

Given this directory structure:

  ~/.TimeTracker/tracker.json
  ~/job/.tracker.json
  ~/job/project/.tracker.json

If you hit C<start> in F<~/job/project/>, all three of those config
files will be merged and the resulting hash will be used as the
current configuration.

If you hit C<start> in F<~/job/>, only F<~/job/.tracker.json> and C<~/.TimeTracker/tracker.json> will be used.

This allows you to have global default settings, different default
setting for different jobs, and fine tuned settings for each project.
Of course you can have as many levels of configs as you want.

B<Tip:> Use C<tracker show_config> to dump the current configuration.

=head2 Using a different tree

Sometime you do not want to arrange your projects in the hierarchical way expected by App::TimeTracker:

  ~/perl/App-TimeTracker/.tracker.json
  ~/perl/App-TimeTracker-Gtk2TrayIcon/.tracker.json

Both C<App-TimeTracker> and C<App-TimeTracker-Gtk2TrayIcon> live in the same directory and thus would be considered seperate projects. But I want C<App-TimeTracker-Gtk2TrayIcon> to be a sub-project of C<App-TimeTracker>, without having to change the directory structure.

The solution: C<parent>

In any config file you can define a key called C<parent>. If this key is defined, the config-walker will use that project as the parent, and ignore the directory structure:

  ~/perl/App-TimeTracker-Gtk2TrayIcon$ cat .tracker.json
  {
    "project":"App-TimeTracker-Gtk2TrayIcon",
    "parent":"App-TimeTracker"
  }

And here's the relevant output of C<tracker show_config>:

  '_used_config_files' => [
    '/home/domm/perl/App-TimeTracker-Gtk2TrayIcon/.tracker.json',
    '/home/domm/perl/App-TimeTracker/.tracker.json',
    '/home/domm/perl/.tracker.json',
    '/home/domm/.TimeTracker/tracker.json'
  ],

=head1 USAGE

=head2 Initial Setup

Call C<tracker init> to set up a directory for time-tracking. C<tracker init> will create a config file called F<.tracker.json> in your current directory. Use this file to load plugins for this projects and/or override and amend the configuration inherited from parent projects.

See L<Configuration> for more information on how to configure C<tracker> for your project(s).

=head2 Basic Usage

Call C<tracker start> when you start working on some project, and C<tracker stop> when you're done:

  ~/work/some_project$ tracker start
  Started working on some_project at 13:06:20
  
  ~/work/some_project$ hack .. hack .. hack
  
  ~/work/some_project$ tracker stop
  Worked 01:43:07 on some_project

To see how long you worked, use C<tracker report>:

  ~/work/some_project$ tracker report --this day
  work                     02:15:49
     some_project             01:43:07
     another_project          00:32:42
  perl                     02:23:58
     App-TimeTracker          02:23:58
  total                    04:39:47

=head2 Advanced Usage with git, RT and IRC

By using some Plugins we can make C<tracker> a much more powerful tool. Let's use the C<git>, C<RT> and C<Post2IRC> plugins for maximum lazyness.

The first step is to add some setting to the tracker config file to your project directory. Or add those settings to a config file in a parent directory, see L<Configuration> for more information on that.

  ~/revdev/Some-Project$ cat .tracker.json
  {
    "plugins" : [
      "Git",
      "RT",
      "Post2IRC",
    ],
    "post2irc" : {
      "secret" : "bai0uKiw",
      "host" : "http://devbox.vpn.somewhere.com/"
    },
    "rt" : {
      "set_owner_to" : "domm",
      "timeout" : "5",
      "update_time_worked" : "1",
      "server" : "https://somewhere.com/rt",
      "username" : "revbot"
      "password" : "12345",
    }
  }

After setting everything up, we can do a simple (but sligtly amended) C<tracker start>:

  ~/revdev/Some-Project$ tracker start --rt 1234
  Started working on SomeProject (RT1234) flux capacitor needs more jigawatts at 15:32
  Switched to a new branch 'RT1234_flux_capacitor_needs_more_jigawatts'

While this output might not seem very impressive, a lot of things have happend:

=over

=item * A new local git branch (based on the name of the RT ticket 1234) has been set up and checked out.

=item * You have been assigned the owner of this ticket in RT.

=item * A message has been posted in the internal IRC channel, informing your colleagues that you're now working on this ticket.

=item * And of course we now keep track of the time!

=back

As soon as you're done, you do the ususal C<tracker stop>

  ~/revdev/Some-Project$ tracker stop
  Worked 00:15:42 on some_project

Which does the following:

=over

=item * Calculate the time you worked and store it locally in the tracking file.

=item * Post the time worked to RT.

=item * Post a message to IRC.

=item * C<git checkout master; git merge $branch> is not performed, but you could enable this by using the command line flag C<--merge>.

=back

Even if those steps only shave off a few minutes per ticket, those are still a few minutes you don't have to spend on doing boring, repetative task (which one tends to forget / repress).

=head2 Tracking Files

Each time you C<start> a new task, a so-called C<tracking file> will
be created. This file contains all information regarding the task
you're currently working on (provided by L<App::TimeTracker::Data::Task>, serialized to JSON via L<MooseX::Storage>). If you call C<stop>, the current time is
stored into the C<tracking file> and the time spend working on this
task is calculated (and also stored).

All C<tracking files> are plain text files containing JSON. It is very
easy to synchronize them on different machines, using anything from
rsync to version control systems. Or you just can use the
C<SyncViaGit> plug-in!

C<tracking files> are stored in F<~/.TimeTracker> in a directory
hierarchy consisting of the current year and the current month. This
makes it easy (easier..) to find a specific C<tracking file> in case
you need to make some manual corrections (an interface for easier
editing of C<tracking files> is planned).

The filename of a C<tracking file> looks like
'YYYYMMDD-HHMMSS_$project.trc', for example:
F<20110811-090437_App_TimeTracker.trc>.

=head1 SOURCE CODE

=head2 git

We use C<< git >> for version control and maintain a public repository on L<github|http://github.com>.

You can find the latest version of App::TimeTracker here:

L<https://github.com/domm/App-TimeTracker>

If you want to work on App::TimeTracker, add a feature, add a plugin or fix a bug, please feel free to L<fork|http://help.github.com/fork-a-repo/> the repo and send us L<pull requests|http://help.github.com/send-pull-requests/> to merge your changes.

To report a bug, please do not use the C<< issues >> feature from github. Use RT instead.

=head2 CPAN

App::TimeTracker is distributed via L<CPAN|http://cpan.org/>, the Comprehensive Perl Archive Network. Here are a few different views into the CPAN, offering slightly different features:

=over

=item * L<https://metacpan.org/release/App-TimeTracker/>

=item * L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/App-TimeTracker/>

=back

=head1 Viewing and reporting Bugs

We use L<rt.cpan.org|http://rt.cpan.org> (thank you L<BestPractical|http://rt.bestpractical.com>) for bug reporting. Please do not use the C<issues> feature of github! We pay no attention to those...

Please use this URL to view and report bugs:

L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=App-TimeTracker>


